So in the previous video we drew
attention to the fact that there's code
warnings in IntelliJ, and they're those
dashes you saw on the right hand side.
So, right at the moment now we
haven't typed anything in, but
you'll notice the little green arrow
there, which is actually indicating that
there's no actual errors in the code or
no warnings.
So as I start typing, i'm gonna actually
type in the program that we actually typed
in in the last section.
Notice the little warnings
that actually come
up, the little lines as I type.
So I type number=9223372036854775807.
So far, so good.
You'll notice there's a little I
there showing as I was typing and
that it actually ended up with a t.
So as I'm typing,
it's actually scanning and
giving us errors if
there are errors there.
So cleaned number, equals double quote,
double quote gives us two quotes, and
I'll add a few more spaces there so
we can be clear about what
we're trying to do here.
So, for i in range, just going to
type this program in again now,
0, len(number), again,
this is the old version.
If number
I in 0123456789, then we're gonna do
cleanedNumber = cleanedNumber,
plus number I.
And it's just a couple more lines.
New number, whoops,
getting our indentation numbers correct.
New number equals int,
clean number,
then print into the top of there.
Come back to the minute print,
the number is
.format(newNumber) and fix that typo.
And again notice that when you
have actually made a typo,
it does actually appear as
here as some warning as well.
So type int.
Fix that up.
So if you actually type it in, exactly as
I've typed it in here, the first real code
of course starts on line three, the number
we're actually assigning the value
into a number variable, you should see
a marker at the end of line eight.
So coming down here,
there's actually one on line three as
well, missing white space around operator.
So what I should have done there is put,
= and a space, like so.
And that will get rid off that one.
But the one we wanna look at first,
before we get started,
is this one here on line eight.
So if you hover over
this with a mouse again,
it says, assignments can be
replaced with augmented assignment.
And again, with these warnings we're
already on that line, but if you click on
them you will actually go for that
line and sort of parse button as well.
You can start editing it as well.
So in this case,
this is actually not an error.
It's more of a suggestion, but given that
in the last videos I recommended you
checking out these markers,
this is actually a good place to
discuss the augmented assignment.
Which of course is not what
it's actually asking about,
it's actually mentioning that maybe we
should be using augmented assignment.
So I know augmented assignment
sounds really fancy, but
it's really just a short-hand way
of assigning values to a variable.
Now the Python documentation describes
them as the following, the combination in
single statement of a binary operation and
an assignment statement, which is true but
If you're like me, listening to that
doesn't sound terribly understandable.
So in line eight we performed
the concatenation of clean number plus
number i.
Then we assigned the result
to clean number.
So the concatenation is
the binary operation.
Binary because it takes
two upper ends to work on.
And then of course,
there's the assignment after that.
So what you could do to change this to
an augmented assignment, we could instead,
I have this example I've
done here on line eight.
We could have actually done this,
+=number i.
When we do that, the warning indicator
over here has now disappeared,
and it's telling that this
is a more efficient way.
It's a short hand way for
what we had in the past.
Now if you're used to programming in Java
or C++, and particularly if you used
IntelliJ ,then you would find that
IntelliJ doesn't make this suggestion for
those languages,
because both statements are identical.
The use is just really
a matter of preference.
So whether you typed it in the long way or
the short way with the plus equal,
as far as Java or C++,
which is two examples of languages.
It makes no difference.
Thing to keep in mind though, is that in
Python the augmented assignment form only
evaluates the signee, which is
the clean number in this example, once.
So, in the other form,
where clean number appeared twice,
the variable is evaluated more than once.
So, basically there's more work for
the computer to do.
So, it's actually processing
that more than once.
And also with the first form,
plus the long winded way with clean
number equals clean number plus one.
Python actually creates a new variable
in memory, assigns the value after
performing the calculation,
then destroys the original version.
Now using an augmented assignment
can perform the operation in place,
with possible modifying of
the original variables.
So there's less work.
There's one less variable.
In this case it would be created
internally from Python's perspective, and
it's going to be more
efficient in most cases.
With that said, it's not always possible,
depending on the type of object.
We have the variable, in other words,
in question to the do this.
But it can be done in
place wherever possible.
And that's why in this case IntelliJ,
when you're using Python with IntelliJ,
it's suggesting that you use augmented
assignments rather than longhand.
Because unlike Java and other programming
languages, the shorthand way with the plus
equals in this particular case
is actually a lot more efficient
from Python's perspective, and
you'll ultimately, as you start writing
real Python programs you're going to be
finding this is more efficient, and you're
going to be actually saving resources
which is actually very important.
And just a reminder that
this last line here,
this last warning, it's saying there's
no new line at the end of file.
We fix that by just creating an empty line
and that will actually remove that error.
And we should in due course get
a little tick that'll appear up here.
And again as I mentioned
the term augmented
assignment sounds a lot more complicated,
and it really is.
Sounds like it's a fancy term.
It's really just a short
hand way as you saw.
So the symbol for
them is just like typing the binary
operator followed by an equal sign.
So you could do something similar.
You put plus there, but
you can use other ones.
You can use the minus, and that would
be the equivalent to clean number=clean
number, type number i, which doesn't make
sense in the context of this string, but
it might be if you're
actually adding numbers.
You could also use multiplication.
That would be star equals like that.
And then you could use slash for
division slash equals.
So let's actually go through
an example of a couple of these so
they actually make sense.
So we can start by saying
x equals twenty three,
then we could put x plus equals one.
So applying this to numbers
makes a lot more sense.
We put x of course we should
get the value twenty four.
So if we run that I see we got
the value 24, so no surprises there.
Then if we actually put x -= 4 and
print that out again that
should be 24 take four.
We should get the answer 20.
And there's a second answer there,
it's 20, which is correct.
And continuing on from
that we can write x=x*=5,
that's what it is,
it's the abbreviation for it.
And that should be 20 times 5 and
that should give us 100 when we run it.
Let's say we've got 100 there and
if we try division x/=4,
so x equals x divided by 4,
in other words.
That should give us an answer of 25.
Bearing in mind it's a flighty answer
because we only used a single division.
And from there we could have done
something like x star, star equals two.
And print that out and we should
get the answer of 625.0 from that.
And of course if you recall star,
star is to the power.
So it's basically 25 to the power of 25,
which was to the power of 2
I should say which was 625.
And lastly from our
remainder process x like so.
If you print x from there, so
we're looking for the remainder.
I've divided what the current value of
x is by 60, if we actually run that.
We get the answer of 25.
And that's because 60
goes into 625 ten times,
leaving a remainder of 25, and the number
25 is what the answer is to that.
And just to finish off, we can actually
apply some of these, binary operators.
There's also two binary operators
that can be performed on strings.
Concatenation which we've seen, but
we'll do again and also repetition.
So we could put greeting = "Good"
(greeting)+= "morning" print (greeting).
We can actually run that.
We have good morning, so you've seen
the pluses before for catanation purposes.
But we can also put this.
We can put greeting *=far so
it's actually replicating by repetition.
The current contents of the string
if you actually print that out.
You can actually run that.
And we get good morning, five times.
And we could've added a space here.
Then run them again if you wanna them a
little bit more nicely across the screen.
And you can see it's repeated five times.
They're the only binary operators
that actually work with strings.
Now there's five more binary operations
that we haven't yet looked at, but
we're gonna leave those for later video.
I'll actually just paste you a list
of what they are on the screen now so
you can actually see them.
So we've seen some of them.
We've seen a lot of them.
But some of these other ones here, less
than, less than, equals, greater than,
greater than,
equals ampersand equals, and so on.
So we'll actually see those and
be talking about those in a future video.
So that's the end of this video.
In the next video, it's time for
a section challenge.
So, we're gonna summarize what we've done
to date in this section of the course, and
then we're actually gonna come up with a
challenge to hopefully help you understand
all the concepts that you've
actually learned in this section.
So, I'll see you in that next video.